(Добавить про новые направления, включая кремниевые Pc PDT, OFET Lessard и Zhao/Jiang supramol NIR)

2. Перерисовать схему диполей (edge2edge vs. face2face).

3. To organize Pc chromophores into tailored structures (+ selfass.) << add about theor. prediction of crystal arrangemens (Olga T.) by AI/ML.

4. Более явно сказать о том, какое практическое значение имеют разные модификации РсМ и важность теор. предсказания их св-в.

5. Более явно обратить внимание на цель работы: объяснить отсутствие экситонного сдвига в спектрах "pure" edge2edge dimers без существенного перекрывания.

Fig. 1A. Arrangement of mono Pcs (show overlap?)
Fig. 1B. MO splitting & transitions

Более подробно о том, как ориентированы диполи (схематично крестиками или квадратиками?), м.б. объединить со схемой диполей в introduction.

6. MO analysis:
Short distances: log(dE) ~ Z (3.5 - 4A) [J.-L. Brédas, J. P. Calbert, D. A. da Silva Filho, and J. Cornil, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99, 5804 (2002).]
Large distances: Coul. (5 - 6A).

7. Unsymmetrical splitting: non-equal contribution of low-energy and high-energy individual excitations i.e. MO reorganisation energy rather than HOMO&LUMO splitting itself
Добавить таблицу разложения по орбиталям? Или в тексте пару примеров?

tight binding model: ссылка на Bredas, Adv. Mat. 2005, 17, 1072; Larsen, J. Phys. Chem. C 2016, 120, 9650
E(LUMO) - E(HOMO) = ; TD includes MO reorganisation energy & supposed to give quantitatively more correct results assuming low-energy transition is essentially a HOMO-LUMO trans. (или вывести напрямую для transition energy?)

Conclusion:

- LR-TDDFT successfully benchmarked on rigid unconj. dimers -> TDDFT correctly predicts exptl. excitonic shifts

- The observed near-absence of the redshift for ege2edge dimers is a result of large distance for coulombic xciton coupl. + absence of MO overlap for short-range xcoupl.
In contrast, slipped-stacked dimers do show large redshift although smaller than for conj. dimers, and is even larger for crystals (infinite slipped stacks) of TiOPc & betaZnPc

- xcoupling if face2face (H-aggr.) Pcs resulting in ~ 50 nm (? eV) blue shift is only вершина айсберга, т.к. большая часть расщепления приходится на redshift запрещенн переходa.



Разобраться с СТ компонентом Xcoupl. (short range exchange vs. superexchange vs CT/CR). Картинку из Hestand?

 the energy splitting is represented by
the CT integrals, th and te, following the relationships
−th≡hϕ1Hj^hjϕ2Hi = 2ΔEH and te≡hϕ1Lj^hjϕ2Li = 2ΔEL , in which
^h is the single-electron Hamiltonian operator.47 (from Zhao 2019)
The wave function overlap is a
short-range superexchange interaction that contrasts
with the Coulombic interaction, enabling the dissociation
of local excitations into CT states where electrons and
holes reside on neighboring chromophores (Figure 1b). 13 (from Zhao 2021)



- eq. (1) is qualitatively applicable although 1/r^3 is actually a superposition of 1/r and e^-r.

- Экстраполяция экситонн. вз-я с помощью tight binding model работает (т.к. в основном nearest neighbour) и может использ. для предск. ЭСП кристаллов

[AIP Advances 11, 015127 (2021)]

E(k) = E0 + 2t1cos(kb) + 2t2cos(2kb), b - lattice const along stack, t1 - nearest, t2 - 2nd nearest

См. Feng et al., Vibrationally resolved и ref. 17. Тетрамер: 3.5 - 1.48! Shift is important! Новизна: с разным shift для альфа-модификации

hestand2017:
Retaining only the Coulombic interactions leads to Kasha’s
exciton model. The Coulomb
coupling between two chromophores arises from the
interaction between their transition charge distributions and is
often expressed using the point-dipole approximation (1)
More sophisticated treatments of the
Coulomb coupling using atomic transition charge densities
give a qualitatively similar picture. 34−36

Intermolecular coupling
leads to delocalized (Frenkel) excitons, which can be expressed using wave vectors []
When the coupling is limited to nearest
neighbors, the energy of the exciton with wave vector k is
E F ( k ) = E S 1 + 2 J Coul cos kb
where k = 0, +-2pi/N, +-4pi/N ... 

Аналогично, E(k) = E(0) + 2t1coskb + 2t2cos2kb + ... [Yanagisawa] для transfer integrals
t1 >> t2 at angle of 0 .. 10 & distance 3.7A and become comparable at shorter dists. & larger angles

Продолжить разбираться с tight-binding моделью!

In contrast to J Coul , the superexchange interaction derives
from wave function overlap between neighboring molecules
and therefore diminishes exponentially with distance.
MO overlap facilitates the dissociation of local excitations into charge-transfer (CT) states 37−40 where electrons and
holes reside on neighboring chromophores (bound exciton, см. Dieter, Meskers, ?). As shown by Kazmeier and Hoffman, 42 t h and
t e are hypersensitive to the transverse registry of neighboring
chromophores, as they derive from the overlap between
neighboring HOMOs and LUMOs, respectively.
This leads to a broad range of Q-band spectra of crystalline Pc derivatives.
the CT mediated superexchange coupling arises from
the transfer of an electron and hole (and vice versa) through
the virtual CT intermediate state. In contrast, the Dexter
exchange integral leads to direct energy transfer but was shown
by Scholes et al. 23 to be insignificant relative to J CT in π-stacked
chromophores. The role that the HOMO and LUMO nodal patterns
play in determining the signs of t h and t e41 can be appreciated
from Figure
t e and t h  change sign according to the number of nodes of HOMO and LUMO along shift axis.
This results in oscillations of excitonic Q-band splitting.
This can lead for example to the absence of the blue-shift of the Q-band in H-aggregates.
Заменить t e & t h на HOMO & LUMO, поскольку это related to charge resonance HOMO-HOMO и LUMO-LUMO в возбужденном состоянии.

Unsymmetrical Q-band splitting can be explained by non-equal contribution of low-energy and high-energy individual excitations i.e. MO reorganisation energy rather than HOMO&LUMO splitting itself.

