The most simple exciton coupling model is given by eq. (1). I wondered
how this equation compares with the more realistic models considered
in this work. Such a comparison may be possible in Tab. I or in Fig 7.
Or somewhere in the supporting information. I believe that the article
provided a much better understanding for the underlying physical
concepts if this point was better elaborated. In this context I
wondered why it is only stated but never shown at which distance, r,
the point dipole model starts to become acceptable.

Some details in figures make it difficult to understand the text:
the names used in the text for the shift motions indicated in Fig. 3A
and 3B are not provided
the naming of the states designates as Eg and Eu in Fig 7 make it hard
to associate them to the Au, Ag, etc. states discussed in the rest of
the manuscript.
Fig. S1 shows two blue lines which cannot be unambiguously identified
from the legend.

    Comparison with substituted systems.
In Table 1, calculated spectra are reported for unsubstituted dimers,
whereas the experimental data correspond to substituted analogues. The
authors should briefly comment on the possible influence of the
peripheral substituents on the Q-band energies and on the
calculated–experimental differences.

    Point-dipole approximation.
The discussion of the distance dependence of the Coulombic interaction
would benefit from a slightly more precise distinction between the
point-dipole approximation and the interaction between the extended
transition densities of the ZnPc molecules. In particular, the (1/r^3)
dependence should be presented as an asymptotic point-dipole
description rather than as a general description of the interaction at
all distances.

    Definition of excitonic coupling.
The authors use several related terms, including excitonic splitting,
excitonic coupling, Coulombic coupling, and short-range coupling. A
brief clarification of how these quantities are defined or extracted
from the TD-DFT results would make the discussion easier to follow.

    Infinite-stack extrapolation.
The agreement between the oligomer extrapolation and the experimental
β-ZnPc spectrum is interesting. Since the extrapolation is based on
oligomers up to (N=5) and a nearest-neighbour tight-binding model, I
suggest that the limitations of this approximation be stated somewhat
more explicitly. The authors already mention the potential importance
of next-nearest-neighbour and inter-stack interactions, which is
appropriate.
